One of my motivations for working on weapons in Garry's Mod was because I wanted to translate the look and feel of the gun-play in some of my favorite titles, as this could give me insights into what makes weapons look and feel good in a shooter. Bringing the weapons from Far Cry 3 was one of my main motivators for learning Blender, as I needed it to work on models which I ripped from the game using Ninja Ripper, as well as animate them from scratch (since these ripper programs have no way to extract animations). I used these skills to bring weapons from [Counter Strike: Global Offensive](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=239687689) and [Far Cry 3](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=271699506) over to the game, hand-animated from scratch. These weapon packs used my old Weapon Base. 

After releasing my [Weapon Base 2](buuswepbase), I needed some weapons to showcase it. The weapons from Far Cry 3 needed some significant animation work done on them, as my animation skills had improved since, and I didn't feel like committing to remaking those animations (for some weapons, it'd be the third time). Instead, however I opted to tackle a different game with a smaller weapon roster: ID Software's 2011 shooter [RAGE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rage_(video_game)). My RAGE SWEP pack seeks to emulate the weapons from this game as accurately as possible.

The SWEP pack features all 10 weapons from the game, as well as all their 6 attachments and 23 ammo types. It also features the notorious wingstick weapon featured in the original game. This SWEP pack utilizes (and showcases) all of the features of my second weapon base.
