Spending so much time using Game Maker 8 was starting to take a toll. The community had largely moved on to GameMaker: Studio, so it was getting increasingly difficult to find resources for GM8 (especially as forums shut down and the YoYoGames Sandbox was deprecated). Eventually, Humble Bundle had a sale for GM:S (including the source code for a bunch of commercial games!), so I jumped at the opportunity to buy it and start using it. I spent a lot of time getting acquainted with all the new features, such as shaders and the built-in physics engine, until I finally felt ready to make an epic game the likes the YoYoGames community had never laid eyes upon. [This will finally be the time I finish a full scale retail game all by myself!](images/Clown.jpg)

I wrote my own model and animation system (since GameMaker doesn't not have anything built-in), 3D collision system, and a level editor. I built a level editor into the game because GM:S's room editor was very inadequate for 3D levels (it's designed for 2D). My level editor would give me an easier time with scaling objects, placing decals on walls, handling rooms on top of rooms, and scripting walls to turn invisible when the player approaches them.

Despite all of my work, as was usual for this time, I never did end up finishing this project. When you're young, you have an easy time publishing games because you aren't as concerned about quality, you just wanna put forth yuor ideas with the rest of the world. But I was at the age where perfectionism was starting to be a project killer. With the added stress of the International Baccalaureate, and the fun I was having with Garry's Mod, I ended up dropping this project. I do think it would be interesting to port what I can over to GameMaker: Studio 2, just to have something to show off the 3D capabilities of the engine. It would just be nice if GM started supporting Linux properly...
